The International Space Station is proving to be very valuable for
scientific research.  It provides a platform to conduct experiments
that require one or more of the unusual conditions present on the
station.  The primary fields of research include human studies, space
medicine, life sciences, physical sciences, astronomy, and
meteorology.  The 2005 NASA Authorization Act designated the American
segment of the International Space Station as a national laboratory
with the goal of increasing the use of the International Space Station
by other federal agencies and the private sector.  For this reason, the
agency has entered into a number of partnerships with various private
enterprises.  Research on the International Space Station improves
knowledge about the effects of long-term space exposure on the human
body.  Subjects currently under study include muscle atrophy, bone
loss, and fluid shift, with an emphasis on fatigue and endurance.  The
data will be used to determine whether space colonization and lengthy
human spaceflight are feasible.  As of 2025, data on bone loss and
muscular atrophy suggest that there would be a significant risk of
fractures and movement problems if astronauts landed on a planet after
a lengthy interplanetary cruise (such as the six-month journey time
required to fly to Mars).  Large scale medical studies have been conducted
aboard the International Space Station via the National Space and
Biomedical Research Institute.  Prominent among these was the Advanced
Diagnostic Ultrasound in Microgravity study in which astronauts
(including two former International Space Station commanders) performed
ultrasound scans under the guidance of remote experts.  For their work
on that project, the two commanders were awarded NASA Service
Commendations.  The study considered the diagnosis and treatment of
medical conditions in space.  Usually, there is no physician onboard
the International Space Station and diagnosis of medical conditions is
a challenge.  It is anticipated that remotely guided ultrasound scans,
with the use of some of the equipment developed for the station, will
have application on Earth in emergency and rural care situations where
access to a trained physician is difficult.  Researchers are investigating
the effect of the station's near-weightless environment on the evolution,
development, growth, and internal processes of plants and animals.  In
response to some of these data, NASA wants to investigate microgravity's
effects on the growth of three-dimensional, human-like tissues, and the
unusual protein crystals that can be formed in space.  The investigation
of the physics of fluids in microgravity will allow researchers to model
the behavior of fluids better.  Because fluids can be almost completely
combined in microgravity, physicists are investigating fluids that do not
mix well on Earth.  In addition, an examination of reactions that are
slowed by low gravity and temperatures will give scientists a deeper
understanding of superconductivity.  With that knowledge, improvements
in electronics and computers are expected.  The study of materials
science is an important element of the research activity, with the
objective of reaping economic benefits through the improvement of
techniques used on the ground.  Other areas of interest include the
effect of the low gravity environment on combustion, through the study
of the efficiency of burning and control of emissions and pollutants.
These findings may improve our knowledge about energy production, and
lead to economic and environmental benefits.  Future plans are for the
researchers aboard the International Space Station to examine aerosols,
ozone, water vapor, and oxides in the Earth's atmosphere, as well as
cosmic rays, cosmic dust, antimatter, and dark matter in the universe.
With the retirement of the space shuttle fleet, it is very important
that the proposed research be carried in the laboratory setting of the
ISS.  For additional reading, see the NASA website or visit your
local library.
